+++
title = "The Fork"
+++

You are at the fork of the 3 intertwined trees. 

## [Climb the Hemlock](@/hemlock/_index.md)

The center tree is a western hemlock, strong and rigid. It
doesn't wrap around the other two but acts as a scaffold
from which they gain their strength. It's branches sprout
parallel to the trunk sliding through the gaps from the
other two trees. They arc wide and green needles cover them
draping like cloth toward the ground. It is the oldest and
largest of the 3 trees. Hanging from the upper branches lay
trails of lichen and vines of ivy. They link the trees
together and give paths for any brave enough to traverse
them.

## [Climb the Oak](@/oak/_index.md)

One the two trees wrapping the hemlock is a majestic dying
oak. Much of his bark has been stripped revealing beautiful
bleached deadwood. Occasionally an entrenched gall can be
seen hanging off of his precious few remaining thin branches
near the top and the occasional cavity from a missing branch
long fallen leads to a knotted and meandering appearance.
Though he is younger than the hemlock backbone of the trio,
he had much stronger growth when they were first getting
established. His roots grow wide and deep but they are more
recently being outpaced by his counterparts. Visible from
the fork is a series of carvings on the main branch
depicting past projects.

## [Climb the Maple](@/maple/_index.md)

The second and youngest of the three trees is a massive
maple. She is vibrant, green, and sweet. Where the hemlock
grows rigid and un-meandering, the maple takes her time and
has little agenda. She was established later, though you can
see signs that her growth was just ignored until recently.
Where the oak's branches have little to no new growth, the
maple has new buds and sprouts on every single one of her
numerous branches. Like the oak's carvings which have
withered with age, the maple also has a newer set of
carvings. They are fewer but in a very similar style.
