+++
title = "Lookout"
template = "page.html"
+++

The woven branches here make a platform that rings the
Hemlock. For a short distance at this point, the branches
have been trimmed back and above the tree is too weak to
support much weight.

The view is incredible. From here you can clearly see the
two halves of the joined canopy of the trio of trees.
Sprouting from the center is the hemlock you are on now
reaching up with great draping branches. The bleached
branches and green bows of the Oak and Maple peak out below
reaching horizontally more than vertically.

From here you can see the woods as a whole. Though the
clearing the trio sits in is on a local hill, the woods grow
up around it upon a hill that is larger still creating a
sort of ring isolating the trio. The hemlock is quite tall
however so you can see some things over the barrier.

## The Mountain

In one direction you can see great mountains stretching out
of the woods many tens of times higher than the outlook. In
places there are rocky outcroppings of blueish stone which
would be nearly impossible to climb. In others the woods
climb steeply but hold together. There may be paths leading
up. At the top, the trees part giving a relative clearing.
Given the view from here, its hard to imagine what you might
see from up there.

## The City

In another a direction you see a golden city backed by an
ocean. Its hard to make out what the walls and buildings are
made of but from here they shine with an almost metallic
yellow color. Above some are great concave mirrors focusing
beams of light pale green blue and purple light in complex
paths. In the center of the city is a massive tower that has
many such beams. At the top is a focal point which is much
too bright to look at. Flickering around the city is a
single bright line that bounces rapidly around the city
without any discernible pattern.

## The Grasslands

In the final direction there are endless rolling hills.
Occasional trees grow in bunches but much of the fields are
empty with grass and greenery. They continue for miles into
the distance until obscured by the atmosphere. The air is
sublimely crisp and without smoke or fog, so it strikes you
as odd that even still the limit to your vision in this
direction is not the gradual dipping away of the ground due
to the curve of the ground, but the atmosphere. The details
slowly slip into the deep blue of the sky making it hard to
make out the line between sky and ground.
