+++
title = "Lookout"
template = "page.html"
+++

The woven branches here make a platform that rings the
Hemlock. The branches above the platform have been trimmed
back leaving an open space where you can look out over the
forest and land beyond. Above the tree is too weak to
support much weight.

The view is incredible. From here you can clearly see the
two halves of the joined canopy of the trio of trees.
Sprouting from the center is the hemlock you are on now
reaching up with great draping branches. The Oak's bleached
branches and Maple's green bows peak out below
reaching horizontally more than vertically.

From here you can see the woods as a whole. Though the
Trio's clearing sits on a local hill, the woods grow
up around it in a sort of ring. The hemlock is quite tall
however so you can see some things over the barrier.

## The Mountain

In one direction you can see great mountains stretching out
of the woods many tens of times higher than your current
outlook. In places there are rocky outcroppings of blueish
stone which would be nearly impossible to climb. In others
the woods climb steeply but hold together in which there may
be paths leading up. At the top, the trees part in a
clearing. Given the view from here, its hard to imagine what
you might see from up there.

## The City

In another a direction you see a golden city backed by an
ocean. Its hard to make out what the walls and buildings are
made of but from here they shine with an almost metallic
yellow color. Above some are great concave mirrors focusing
beams of pale green blue and purple light in complex paths.
In the center of the city is a massive tower that has many
such beams directed toward it. At the top is a focal point
which is much too bright to look at. Flickering out from the
point and down toward the city is a single bright line that
bounces rapidly from place to place resting there for a
moment and then flitting away without any discernible
pattern.

## The Grasslands

In the final direction there are endless rolling hills.
Occasional trees grow in bunches but much of the fields are
empty with grass and greenery. They continue for miles into
the distance until obscured by the atmosphere. The air is
sublimely crisp and without smoke or fog, so it strikes you
as odd that even still the limit to your vision in this
direction is not the gradual dipping away due to the curve
of the ground, but instead the slow slipping of details into
the deep blue of the sky. It is very difficult to make out
the line between sky and earth.
