+++
title = "Day1 - Everydays"
description = "Reintro to Everydays"
date = 2023-03-23

[extra]
project = "blog"
+++

Here goes nothing.

I'm back on my writing again. There are a couple reasons I'm
trying to write consistently. One is that I'm currently
without a job (hit me up on twitter @Kethku if you're
interested in hiring me). Another is that I'm feeling
drained.

Politics are scary, my life is chaotic and unorganized, and
it is becoming gradually harder to make progress on the
things that used to bring me joy. The last time I felt this
way I got a lot of value out of the every day blog posting.
I hope that by using this as a forcing function I might be
able to capture some of that excitement again. We will see.

## The Blog - World Building

This time around I'm doing things a little differently. I
have this idea of a site that you can visit and interact
with. One where you can see other people visit as well. That
combined with a new interest in ttrpgs has lead to the
current incarnation of the site. I want my website to be
something you can explore and I want to use it as a place to
play around with more creative writing.

So the site has a new coat of paint. Right now everything is
static, but eventually I would like to build a multi user
dungeon on top of it that feels more live. Even without
those dynamic features, I think its an interesting take I
haven't seen before.

At the moment its pretty abstract but I think with each post
I want to iterate on it and at least expand the places you
can explore. I suspect there may be some daily posts about
implementing the dynamic pieces, but we'll see where it
takes me. As it stands today, the older posts can be found
in [The Oak](@/oak/_index.md) so you can scrub through and
read those if you like. New posts will show up in [The
Maple](@/maple/_index.md).

This will be a shorter post as I've spent enough time
writing the initial area descriptions. Here's hoping I stick
with it and feel the same motivation I did last time.

Till tomorrow,
Kaylee
