+++
title = "Day21 - Jealousy"
description = "Jealousy"
date = 2023-05-19
+++

This part of the tree is starkly different than the rest. Up
till now the growth of the maple compared to the other trees
was way faster. It leapt up in spurts making massive strides
like an avalanche. The greenery was inevitable. Like
falling.

Here is different. The growth is slow and cautious. Each time
the Maple pushes forward, the oak inserts itself. That's not
quite right, the oak took this space years ago. Not out of
malicious intent, just because that's what was expected of
it. Regardless, its in the way and progress is difficult.
Each step forward is hard fought and requires encouraging
the oak to let go. Its painful.

The Maple is joyful all the same, as with other parts of the
Trio, there is incredible happiness to be had here. It takes
time and care. As you inspect this place where the Maple and
Oak compete, you can see the mark of loving hands. A piece
of twine moving a young branch into a clearer path. The
occasional pruned branch where growth would have caused
problems instead of helped. Once noticed, the touches of
these hands can be seen everywhere. Nothing harsh, but
ubiquitous. Counting the effects would be impossible. Too
many to count and often subtle. She would not be the same
or likely here at all without this guidance and care.

Even still the Maple is constantly pushing against the oak's
presence. It presses against every bark and branch the oak
has left behind from it's own youth. The Maple will succeed
in the end, but it yearns for what it might have been like
to grow through this place unrestrained. What might have
happened if she was planted first instead of he. How tall
might she have grown. How wonderful her leaves if he had not
taken the light before her. The Maple weeps here angling
down toward the ground instead of ever upward as usual.

But she is prevented from doing so. Each drooping branch is
bent upward toward the light. Gently, but consistently. The
hands never tire and she is better for it.
